Frame 0
. Hi!, this is Mehmet Akif here, for presenting you the full fledged Data Strategy for pemo.
. In short, I have been in Data field for over 15 years, worked end to end from engineering to exploration and analytics and so on. Focused more on CRM, Growth and Finance Data.
Frame 2
. Here you see the very boring bullet points list of our Data Strategy
. But don't worry, you  will not get lost, I will try my best to make things simpler and fun, I hope you'll enjoy the journey.
. My focus will make each and every piece of this strategy would make total sense at the end of this presentation.
. In today’s era of AI, simplifying things are sometimes more important that the actual development itself.
. Each technical step has to serve to Business Requirements in one way or another.
. So, off we go!
Frame 3 . Let’s start with why we need this strategy
. And the challenges!
. And what are we trying to solve

. In the current level of complexity and size, pemo is able to manage its everyday data needs, follow the responsibilities as much as possible.
. But regulations are strict and we have to follow them.

. we are GROWING! which is great but that also brings drastic increase in complexities and responsibilities

. And in the current state We are not ready, YET!

. here comes the proper Data Strategy in the picture

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This will serve to fulfill both Business and Compliance requirements of current pemo and grown-up pemo

. The first step, on the business side of the things,
 . what the teams expect from Data
. 1 - Better visuals with curated data
. 2 - Consistent, Accurate and Quick Data Access for better decision making.

to fulfill these requirements, we have prepared the following points to serve business at scale.

The titles are
. Data Architecture and Performance
. Data Visualization
. Data Quality

So, we'll have:
. optimized systems for faster data access
. proper pipelines and curation for consistent and accurate data access
. proper datasets generations for Advanced Analytics and ML such as fraud model feeds
. LLM (GPT AI) for sensitive information exploration

. Proper reports and visualizations catalog pointing the curated data at the back end

. Continuous Quality check and monitoring

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
On the other side, we have Compliance requirements which are critical for fintechs.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This data strategy proposes a full fledged framework

Starting with analysis and Clean up -
Creating a company level data catalog to check
  . What we have
  . What to store,
  . Where to store etc.

. Will be managed by proper access controls, like who should access which data points

. This process will keep improving and powered by monitoring success metrics

. Managing Success Metrics

. Having the entire data visibility with ownerships on a table and column level

. Data Residency and Retention Policies

. Policies for Data sharing with 3rd Parties

. Business Resilience

. And this brings us back to our beloved Srategy bullet points list

. And here are the sample structure of our framework

. Table Level Catalog
. Column Level Catalog
. Roles Based Access (Both on Column and Row Level)
. Data Residency to follow and fulfill UAE KSA Data Residency needs
. Data Quality Checks and alerting mechanism
. External 3rd party data sharing tracking and permissions
. Disaster Recovery strategies

Frame 4
So, what we are trying to achieve with this

For Leadership
. Better decisions bring additional revenue
. 0 fines policy
. Drastic Data processing cost reduction

For Teams
. Right people will access right data faster

. Customers will be happy to have faster response and personalized experience with ML.
. They will feel safe with their private data

Frame 5
. We need your support on manage the resistance, especially on compliance side. Will be seen as extra burden.

pemoCurrent
pemoHighLevel
pemoHypotheticalDesign

. Before closing, I would like show you the propsed Data Model and Flow very shortly.

. Thanks for your time